Explain the difference between clustered and non-clustered indexes.
How would you optimize index usage in a highly transactional database?
How do you use column aliases in conjunction with aggregate functions?



What is the difference between joins and subqueries?
When would you prefer a subquery over a join?
Explain how correlated subqueries work with an example.
Discuss the performance implications of using joins vs subqueries.
Explain the use of user-defined data types in MSSQL.


Provide an example of a non-correlated subquery.
Explain how correlated subqueries can affect query performance.
What is TSQL and how does it extend standard SQL?


What are the main differences between TSQL and PL/SQL?
How do error handling mechanisms differ in TSQL and PL/SQL?
Compare the performance optimization techniques in TSQL and PL/SQL.
Explain how transactions are managed differently in TSQL vs PL/SQL.
Imagine you are setting up a new database for an e-commerce website. How would you ensure that only authorized users have access to sensitive customer data?
Your company needs to comply with GDPR. Explain how you would implement data encryption and access controls to secure personal data.
Intermediate	Describe the steps you would take to configure MSSQL Server for a small business with both transactional (OLTP) and analytical (OLAP) workloads.
You are tasked with encrypting a column that stores credit card numbers. Describe the steps you would take to implement column-Question encryption in MSSQL.
Explain how you would set up and manage encryption keys for a large organization with strict data security requirements.
Explain how you would troubleshoot and resolve performance issues caused by missing or poorly designed indexes.
Describe a scenario where a full outer join would be necessary, and provide a query example.
Provide a scenario where a subquery would be more appropriate than a join, and write the corresponding query.
Compare the performance implications of using a join versus a subquery for retrieving data from large tables.
Explain how you would handle data type conversions when importing data from a CSV file with mixed data types.
Explain a scenario where TSQL's TRY...CATCH error handling would be beneficial, compared to PL/SQL's exception handling.
Compare how TSQL and PL/SQL handle bulk data operations, and describe a situation where one might be preferred over the other.
Explain the concept of GROUPING SETS and how they can be used.
Explain the difference between clustered and non-clustered indexes.
Explain the use of user-defined data types in MSSQL.



-----------------

A startup wants to use a NoSQL database for a mobile app. Explain why they might choose NoSQL over SQL and what considerations they should keep in mind.
You are migrating an application from an SQL database to a NoSQL database. Describe the challenges you might face and how you would address them.
Explain how you would normalize a database to 3NF, starting with an example that includes redundant data.

----------------